INTRODUCTION :

A push button counter using an Arduino and a single LED involves using a push button as input to increment a counter,
and an LED to visually indicate the count or a button press.

The Arduino code detects button presses (typically rising edges of the input signal) and increments a counter variable,
which can then be displayed or used to control other parts of a project.
The LED provides visual feedback, often blinking or lighting up to signal a button press or to indicate the current count. 

REQUIRED COMPONENTS :

Arduino Board: The microcontroller that controls the counting and LED.
Push Button: The input device, usually connected to a digital input pin on the Arduino.
LED (Light Emitting Diode): The output device, connected to another digital output pin on the Arduino.
Resistors: Used to limit current to the LED and potentially for pull-up or pull-down resistors on the button input.

CODE :

#define LED 10
#define btn 2
int btn_state = 0;
int count = 0;
void setup()
{
  pinMode(LED, OUTPUT);
  pinMode(btn, INPUT);
  Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop()
{
  btn_state = digitalRead(btn);
  if(btn_state == HIGH)
  {
  	digitalWrite(LED, HIGH);
    count++;
    Serial.print("No:of time button presses : ");
    Serial.println(count);
    delay(200);
    digitalWrite(LED, LOW);
    delay(200);
  }
}

CIRCUT DIAGRAM CONNECTION :

Connecting the push button to digital pin 2 on the Arduino.
Connecting the LED and its resistor to digital pin 13.
In the setup() function, setting pin 2 as an input with a pull-up resistor and pin 13 as an output.
In the loop() function, checking the state of pin 2. 
If it's HIGH (button pressed), increment a counter, and then either turn the LED on or blink it for a short time.

WORKING PROCESS & IMPLEMENTATION :

A counter is a device that counts the number of times when a particular event occurs.
Here we count the number of times the push switch has been pressed.
The Arduino detects a transition of input from a LOW state to the HIGH state during switch press; 
that is the value of counting variable increments for a positive edge triggering.

In the circuit, the push switch is connected to a digital pin of the Arduino; here at pin 9.
When the push switch has pressed the LED ON for half a seconds and then OFF,
it is provided just for an indication that the switch press has been detected or the value has been incremented by one.
The counter is designed for a positive edge trigger, hence it only increments the count variable on a positive edge irrespective of how long the switch is held ON.
In order to do that we have added a variable called “prestate”.
The counter value increments only when two conditions are satisfied, that is the input state is high and the value of prestate is 0.
Once the switch is pressed, along with incrementing and flashing the LED the value of prestate also set to 1;
as you can see in the code area inside the if condition.
As long as the switch is held ON the prestate remains 1 and it sets to 0 only when the switch is released. 
So the code allows us to increment the variable only for positive edges of the input.
This logic is similar to a toggle switch which ON and OFF the output for alternative switch ON of the same input;
usually a toggle switch responds for a positive edge trigger.

TINKERCAD LINK : https://www.tinkercad.com/things/7WGyRoHEdOE-fabulous-juttuli-turing/editel?returnTo=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinkercad.com%2Fdashboard

